Hare Krishna! Jaya Prabhupada!

**Welcome to SanGen 1.0.**

This Sankalpa Generator has been developed by Kripa Siddha Das. Please read this README file carefully if this is the first time you are using this program, or if you are having any technical difficulties.

**There are a few prerequisites for running this software:**

1. The machine must be running Linux with Bash.

3. Within the SanGen folder, along with the SanGen script executable, there should be a text file titled gcal.txt. This calendar is to be generated by ISKCON's Gcal application. The default file that comes with SanGen 1.0 is set to Mayapur, India.

4. **IMPORTANT** - The calendar should start at least **one full year** prior to the present time. This is necessary because the program determines parameters like season (ritu), solar sign (rasi), etc. by reading backwards through the calendar. **There will be no prompt** to do this if its missing - but the information displayed will very likely be wrong. The gcal.txt file that comes with this by default starts in September 2019, so there is nothing to worry about if you are using the original calendar.

5. All instances of (suitable for fasting) and (not suitable for fasting) should be removed from the gcal.txt file. They should be replaced by at least one or two blank spaces, to prevent word-merging.  (Use Find & Replace)

5. The SanGen script file must have executable permissions. This can be done through the Terminal.

   `$ sudo cd ~/Documents/SanGen/SanGen; sudo chmod +x SanGen `

   Replace ~/Documents/SanGen/SanGen with the directory SanGen is located in.

   Type in your password if prompted.

6. The system's date must be correct.

**Instructions for Usage**

1. Ensure that all Prerequisites are fulfilled.
2. Open the SanGen folder, and double-click on the SanGen executable script. Click, **Run in Terminal**.
4. Type in the date. Use double digits for the date, a three-letter abbreviation for the month, and four digits for the year. For example: `09 Aug 2021` . You can also simply type the letter **t** for today.
4. Hit Enter.
5. The Sankalpa will be generated.  A file called .txt will be made in the SanGen directory. A text editor window with the Sankalpa will open, so that you can print it directly.

**A few final notes:** 

1. Remember that the original gcal.txt file is set for Mayapur, India. If used for other regions, it may display wrong information. However, updating the gcal.txt file can be done seamlessly. Just make sure to remove all instances of (suitable for fasting) and (not suitable for fasting). In the original file, this is already done.

2. The gcal.txt file that comes with the original version of SanGen 1.0 is set to work from 01/01/2020 to 01/01/2030. If the file is updated, SanGen itself can work upto 2040. After that, it will run out of Gaurabda year translations. Gaurabda will be printed in numerals after 553. They can be updated through the source-code if required.

3. The file with the Sankalpa will be placed in the SanGen folder, and will be titled the same as the date it is for. Example:

   28 May 2021.txt

4. If making Sankalpa for 14th or 15th of January, **or** 16th or 17th of July, the Ayana (course of the sun) will be marked us UNKNOWN, due to the closeness of the dates to the two Sankrantis in which the sun changes its course. This is done in order to preserve the perfect accuracy of the program. Please refer to the calendar manually in these cases.

5. If making Sankalpa for a date close to *any* of the year's 12 Sankarantis (days the Solar Sign, or Rasi, changes), the Rasi will be marked as [Rasi 1]/[Rasi 2] (Example: *Makara/Kumbha*). This is also done to preserve 100% accuracy. Please refer to the calendar manually in these cases. There are a total of 24 days in the year that this could occur on.

**Developer Notes:**

**Version 1.0 - Glitch - Line 377.**

`echo "$nak Naksatra Samyutayam" >> "$date".txt`

While $nak (the variable denoting the naksatra) is properly defined and called, the trailing text (Naksatra Samyutayam) gets printed to a new line.

This is the only place that this happens, and there is no apparent reason. The rest of the variables print absolutely normally, along with their trailing text, for example:

`echo "$vara Varanvitayam" >> "$date".txt`

**Should figure out a way** to automatically prompt user if the calendar starts less than a year ago, then force-exit. 

**If user types in a date** that is not on the calendar, there should be a message letting him know. Right now,  a bunch of error messages pop up and an empty Sankalpa file is generated.

**Include an option** to create a full Sankalpa. With *om govinda govinda govinda*, etc. Not really necessary, but the need might come up in the future.

**Include an option** to make Sankalpa for tomorrow, day after tomorrow, or just by specifying the day of the present week.

**Windows/Mac Version?**









